---
title: "A spiking neural network control system for the investigation of sensori-motor protocols in neurorobotic simulations"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2022-nest
venue: "NEST Conference 2022"
date: 2022-06-23
location: "Virtual"
---

We propose a functional bio-inspired multi-area model in NEST for motor control where the information is frequency-coded and exchanged between spiking neurons.
Our model consists of a controller, representing the central nervous system, and an effector, modelled as an arm and implemented with PyBullet.
Different functional areas build up the controller, each one modelled with spiking neuronal populations, which we implemented ad-hoc to perform mathematical operations (e.g., Bayesian integration). Additionally, to study cerebellar role in motor adaptation, we included a detailed model of the cerebellum, consisting of EGLIF neurons, and ad-hoc Spike-Timing-Dependent Plasticity rules.
Finally, to manage the communication between the brain and the arm, we make use of the MUSIC interface.
We used the model for the control of a single degree of freedom in the elbow joint. Preliminary simulations show proper signals transmission among areas in the model, bioinspired encoding/decoding of end-effector signals, and learning capability driven by the cerebellum. Finally, the MPI-based setup enables the use of distributed resources (i.e., we tested the system with 10 parallel MPI processes). This allows to address the computational requirements of simulations, facilitating also the control of multiple DoFs in future studies.